[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza started
his career as a chiropractor.
After sustaining a
debilitating injury,
he declined surgery
and proceeded
to heal himself in 12 weeks with
meditation and visualization.
He then vowed to devote
his life to studying
that mind-body connection.
And he's a pioneer
in bringing students
to higher consciousness
through meditation.
I participated in a
week-long meditation retreat
with Dr. Joe.
There, I learned about the
power that our own mind
has over our physical body, our
health, our immunity, and even
our unborn children.
>> Well, I think that if people
were educated on how our genes
really work, they probably would
assign more meaning to the way
they think, the way they
feel, and the way they act.
And so genes are like a
Christmas tree lights.
They're signaling on and
signaling off all the time.
And when the signal
reaches the cell,
the cell selects
and instructs genes.
And genes make proteins.
And proteins are responsible
for the structure
and the function of the body.
And the expression of proteins
is the expression of life.
By the same means, if a
person's living and reacting
in survival, in emergency
mode, in stress,
and no organism can
live in emergency mode
for too long, because it
taps the body's vital energy,
its vital resources.
And so the more we react to the
conditions in our environment,
it's not a time for growth,
it's not a time for repair.
So the gene down regulates.
And it starts making a
cheaper protein or protein
that no longer is as expressive
in terms of health in the body.
That means our genes can
be regulated and moderated
on a moment-to-moment basis.
But we're thinking the same way
and we're feeling the same way,
we're keeping the same genes
on and the other genes off.
And in a sense we're
headed for genetic destiny.
If by the same means, we're
thinking the same way,
making the same choices,
doing the same things,
recreating the same experiences,
producing the same emotions,
the very same thing
happens because there's
no new experiences
that are information
from new sensory experiences
in the environment that
begin to select and
instruct new genes.
And so the person's headed
for a genetic future
or genetic destiny.
So it turns out that
sperm and the egg
have an immediate connection
to the memory of what
the mother or father is
experiencing in the moment.
>> Real immunity can take
place even before conception.
Dr. Jeannie Ohm in the
quest for real immunity
talks about the
intelligence of life
when two cells come together
and miraculously form a baby.
Dr. Leslie explains
the deep influence
we have on our unborn children.
Dr. Joe also illustrates how
some indigenous cultures have
an awareness of these influences
and they create rituals
around conception to assure
the best possible result.
>> If the seed and the egg are
that sensitized to thoughts
and feelings, then the thoughts
and feelings moments before
conception have a direct effect
on the expression of those very
genes before conception.
So very, very
ancient tribes that
had a strong value on
culture and leadership
understood that when they
separated the male and female,
it wasn't to increase
lust, it was a process
of bringing your
best to consummate
and connect and unify
in this state of love.
And what is of the
spirit is born in spirit.
What is of the flesh
is born of the flesh.
So if the organism is perceiving
some type of threat or danger
in the environment, the
stronger emotion they feel,
the more they're moving
into that survival state,
it's going to signal those
genes because there's
better chances of survival
if the offspring is
in the same
environmental conditions.
So it's a signaling
so that there's
some type of evolution to the
environmental experiences.
And then, you know, if
there is consummation
and there's an exchange of
genetic information, the 23
chromosomes from
sperm, 23 chromosomes
from the egg cross link.
And they begin to
exchange information
for the combination
of the greatest
expression in the environment
that the progenitors are
actually living
in or perceiving.
So there's implantation and
the mother's blood supply
is intimately connected to
the development of the embryo.
And its thoughts
and feelings also
begin to further select and
instruct genes in another way.
So there's research that
shows that it literally
molds the body.
So if the parents are in
poverty or living in lack
or living in fear and living
in constant survival or stress,
the head circumference
of the child the smaller.
There's a larger hindbrain
and smaller forebrain.
The adrenal glands are larger.
The body has been
shaped and molded,
again, equal to the
interaction in the environment,
so that there is even further
signaling for the greatest
expression in that environment.
And then, of course,
then there's partition.
There's birth.
And now, the environment is
a strong signal once again.
So now, the child's
brain is so neuroplastic
that it's deeply involved
in learning everything
in its environment as quickly
as possible and to navigate
in a new body.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> So the biology is the one
that it's going to actually
rule the body.
So once they know, oh, the
environment wasn't as I thought
and as I felt. Sorry for mom.
Then they know the truth.
They can heal.
There is no conflict between
what I think and feel
and my biology, and then the
body doesn't get sick anymore.
That's like autoimmune system.
Let's say one
thing, one example.
The mom gets pregnant in a
very difficult situation.
And the mom says, I want to die.
Just one thought.
I'm afraid of this
situation, and I want to die.
In that moment, that child will
keep repeating the pattern I
want to die, I want to die.
I don't want to live.
And in some point, they could
develop an autoimmune system
disease.
That could be coming from
mom's fear or mom's emotions
of wanting to die.
And this is not even the child.
So that child never knew
that the mother wanted
to die when she got pregnant
because she's afraid of hurting
the child by
telling him I wanted
to die when I knew
I was pregnant.
That would make an
impact on the child,
so the mom thinks I should
never tell him my feelings.
Once the mom tells
the child, you know,
I was afraid I was not
going to be able to make it.
I was afraid of not
being a good mother.
I was in fear of
having you, and I
felt I would have been
better for me to die.
But I'm sorry for that.
And I'm glad you are here.
And I love your existence.
No conflict.
>> So in your
clinical observation,
do you see this pass through
multiple generations?
Can something like this
impact immunity from two,
three generations back?
>> Well, Bible talks I think
if I'm recalling correct six
generations.
So, of course.
As we carry in our
genes, we carry
the color of the hair,
the eyes, the skin,
we also carry emotional
trauma from our ancestors.
So it is very important to
know about our background.
Where are we coming from?
We cannot just say, I don't
want to talk about my family.
I don't want to talk about
anybody, because that
is denying your existence.
That is denying something that
is in you that you are not
recognizing.
And we should always
honor our ancestry,
so we can honor ourselves.
So, yes, the more we know of
our ancestors, the better.
And there is this
connection between like if I
am number two in
my number of birth
and miscarriages
and abortions count,
and they have to be between
the same mother and father.
But if I find what's my
number, what's my spot,
and then I look
for everybody that
is the same number in my
family, I could be connected.
For example, if I am two and
my grandmother was two, then
if she didn't resolve
something, maybe I
will have to resolve it
through a journey of a disease.
So we have the opportunity
to resolve these things
and heal generations--
>> Of course--
>> Going forward.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> So it tends to model and
pay attention to behaviors.
And there's neurons in the
brain called mirror neurons that
are actually priming
the brain to demonstrate
the same behavior.
And when a female lioness is
teaching her cubs how to hunt,
she doesn't say,
OK, you go that way.
You go that way.
I'm going to go this way.
She basically changes
the way she does things.
And it catches all
of their attention.
She's no longer
mom in that moment.
She's now a predator.
And they all put all of
their attention on her.
And they are used to
neurologically doing that,
so they have the
circuitry in place.
And all of a sudden, she starts
to move in an environment.
And the same neurons
in their brains
are turning on as if
they were hunting.
She's priming their brain.
She's selecting and instructing
neurological networks
and saying, don't pay
attention to what I'm saying.
Notice what I'm doing.
And mirror neurons
are empathy neurons.
They emulate behaviors.
And so the children
in our environment
that we're raising
in a specific place
are being raised by parents with
the same genetic propensities,
the same automatic programs,
the same emotional reactions.
And it's literally
what is beginning
to subconsciously program them
through their mirror neurons
and at the same time lay the
foundation of their identity
and personality.
And they're basically
modeling our behaviors.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> So there was a study
done on visualization,
visualizing your immune cells,
visualizing your T cells,
your macrophages.
Macrophages are
like Pac Man cells.
And they're focused on cancer
cells, bacteria and virus.
They gobble them up and,
you know, dispose of them.
And so this visualization
study was done for patients
blood test was taken
prior to the visualization
and then after.
And they found a significant
improvement in immune cells
just from visualization.
So the patients would just
imagine their T cells, B cells,
macrophages, dendritic cells
attacking cancer cells,
attacking viruses, attacking
bacteria, and also,
in autoimmune diseases,
regulating the immune system,
getting to a balanced
state, a regulation state.
So that was a nice, very well
done study on visualization.
So the thoughts, the
emotions, all this
has a very important
role in immune integrity,
because every cell is
communicating with each other.
And so this is
information transfer.
And this is at the root
of health and/or disease.
So when information
that we bring inside
from the external
environment is positive,
it's uplifting, it's
loving, then these cells,
that's what they know.
That's what they're going to
communicate with each other.
And that is disfavorable
to a disease process.
>> So it sounds like you're
saying that making our own
choices and thus empowering
ourselves has a tremendous
effect on the immune system
that's scientifically
measurable.
>> Yes, yes.
And it's interesting because
when you say empowerment,
my thought right there
was just healthy thoughts,
you know, healthy attitude,
because that's really
what empowers us,
right, showing love.
And chronic disease
patients, in my experience
of almost 30 years in this
field of holistic, integrative,
alternative medicine, is
that chronic disease patients
are more givers than receivers.
And so we need to learn
how to receive also.
And that's empowering because
most of these patients
that I've seen, they're
just givers, givers.
And so it's empowering also
to learn how to receive.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> And so we measured cortisol
levels, the stress hormone.
We measured immunoglobulin
A. We wanted
to see if a person's living
in survival and stress
and their cortisol
levels are up,
their immune system
is suppressed.
It dials down.
But if we could teach them how
to create an elevated emotion
like gratitude and that
they were safe enough
to open their hearts could
they begin to down regulate
the gene for cortisol
production and up regulate
the gene for a
stronger immune system
equipped to deal with greater
environmental challenges.
So that we're immune to the
conditions in our lives.
And cortisol levels
dropped 16.25%
and IGA levels went up
49.5% in the collective.
And the worst thing that could
happen to us if we get grateful
and move out of survival is
that we'll begin to heal.
People do the best with what
they think is available.
And if you have the limited
understanding that there's
only one solution to a
condition or problem, then
more than likely
you've closed your mind
to other possibilities.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> How do we find that sweet
spot where our thoughts
and emotions are actually
producing healthy cells
and keeping us open
to all possibilities?
I see parents struggling
with this all the time
regarding their own children.
I've also grappled
with trying to improve
my own health with
visualization, gratitude,
meditation.
So, Dr. Leslie, explained
to me a little bit
about heart coherence.
What is that?
And how does it work?
>> Well, coherence
itself it's connectivity.
It's connection.
We are all connected.
I'm connected with
you, you with me.
We create these
net of connections.
So coherence, the
heart coherence,
is whatever you feel.
People around you can sense
it, will be influenced by it.
And the mother and child
are very connected.
Sometimes they say
that you can feel
what mom is feeling even though
you are in different places.
That's the heart coherence.
When you just sense
something's wrong
and then you make a phone
call, it's like I was right.
Mom is not feeling well.
So I think that coherence
never goes away,
because moms and kids and
babies, we're connected.
We're all connected.
And it depends of
what the soul journey
needs to learn that will
connect with different people
in different levels.
And the coherence
of the heart is
one of the ones that
gets locked when
we get caught in this matrix
of the external world,
when we are not focused on
what we feel, what we are,
our inner light.
When we are so
much in the out, we
forget about that connection.
And that's when we feel lost.
So it is very important
to connect to the heart.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Well the first thing that
feeds me is my spiritual
connection with God, because
that's where we come from.
That's the essence of our being.
I've been around patients
who are near death.
And whatever religion they are
or even if they're atheists,
one of their last
words or thoughts
that they expressed
verbally is "God, help me."
So I think at a
deep, human level,
we do know that
there is a creator,
that there is an almighty being.
So to ground, to
empower myself, we
need to go to what some call
the source, the source of it.
And what happens then
is that you're at peace.
You're free.
You can heal.
You're in a state of healing.
And disease doesn't
like this because this
is of not of the dark side.
This is light.
And we want to be in the light.
So that will be my first thing.
And to empower myself,
being around cancer patients
and patients with chronic
disease for so many years,
I have to actively
and physically
do something that
will empower me
in knowing that,
hey, I'm not just
sitting around hoping
that I don't get
a disease or a chronic disease.
So detoxification, the
seven key principles
that I talk about in my
book "Hope for Cancer,"
seven principles to
remove fear and empower
your healing journey.
So we talk about oxygenation.
We talk about detoxification.
We talk about the emotional
and spiritual part
of health and healing.
So all these seven
key principles
that we outline in the book
very thoroughly empower us.
And so we're not just
hoping, right, waiting that--
because my father had prostate
cancer, I hope I don't get it.
No, I'm empowering
myself proactively
to decrease significantly
my risk or possibility
of acquiring cancer.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> A simple thing that doesn't
cost anything is laughter.
Laughter, smiling,
happiness in our lives,
This is clinically
and scientifically
proven how it up regulates
our immune system immediately
and lasts for some time.
So just being happy,
laughing, greatly
stimulates our immune system.
Secondly will be to get a proper
night's sleep, because we know
that from 10:00 PM
to 2:00 AM is when
our body heals, regenerates,
and repairs ideally.
So let's try to be in bed and
asleep in those time frame.
Thirdly is, of course,
to detoxify, eat
healthy, drink plenty of water.
Make good, healthy
nutritional food choices--
no GMOs, free of pesticide.
So we're not increasing
the toxic burden
that we may have already just
from living in this world.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Well, who I--
in my work, in everyday nature,
I live a lot in my mind.
But I think the existence of my
daughter in a personal levels,
she's the one that opened my
other me, which was my heart.
And by that I'm able to
connect with both of them.
So for me, my safe spot
of opening up my heart
is children.
That's where I feel safe.
And animals, nature,
that's where I feel safe.
So by that, I think it's an
everyday thing by connecting
and wanting to help.
So my real connection
is feeling that
wholeness where I feel
connected and where
I feel that I'm being
useful to others.
>> So there's no doubt
whatsoever that our thoughts
and emotions play a very
strong role in our health
and immunity.
As we learned in the
quest for real immunity,
germs are not the culprit.
Health and immunity reside
within us, not outside of us.
Throughout the "Real
Immunity" series,
we've learned that information
is the antidote to fear.
If you're afraid, you just
need to do more research.
Learn more.
Know more.
Understand more.
Dr. Joe would agree.
>> I think the number one
thing we have to do is educate
ourselves about the truth,
about how powerful and strong
our immune system is.
And we have to trust our innate
intuition that we can adapt
and that we can heal.
And there's a delicate
balance between intention
and surrender.
And if you have the
intention, but you're
in lack or separation,
we try harder.
And that's not the solution.
And we could
surrender, but if we
don't have a clear
intention, then we
become lazy and lethargic
and we don't really
do anything to set our mind
in the right direction.
But when you begin
to marry those
and you walk that
razor's edge, you
teach people how to
trust in health and trust
in well-being, trust in the
body's innate capacity to heal,
to believe that your body's
immune system has a memory.
And then number two, teach
your children the truth.
Tell them germs do
not create disease.
Tell them the majority of
the bacteria in their bodies
are alive.
And they're called
opportunistic bacteria
because they're waiting
for an opportunity for you
to get out of balance,
for you to go back
into survival and stress and
suppress your immune system.
If you were to change the
way you thought and the way
you felt, that truly you
taught them how to do that,
then they would have the
natural capacity in the belief
that their immune
system has a memory.
It's the rudimentary
nervous system.
It has a memory.
It memorizes invaders.
And when it's coherent and in
balance and we are feeling safe
and we're feeling
present, it gets stronger.
And I think that if we teach
our children the truth about it,
they'll begin to rely less on
anything outside of them, that
to change how they
feel inside of them.
And I think they'll
be less seduced
into a pharmaceutical
model that has
its benefits in the short term.
But with chronic
health conditions
that require a
lifestyle change means
that we're going to have
to actually do something
and to participate in our own
healing and in our own health.
So I think learning and
experimenting and being
able to not only understand
that, but be able to express it
and to say it in a
coherent and clear way,
I think it makes
us better equipped
to then defend our new belief.
And that gives people
permission to do the same.
And by teaching our
children the way
it is, I think it helps
change the future.
I've never immunized my kids.
I never would.
And I went through that
period talking to educators,
talking to administrators
about all of it.
And I think, you
know, it's information
is getting out there.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I shared my most recent book,
"There Is a Choice," with Dr.
Joe.
And he was very curious about
the studies in the book.
And he was also familiar
with homeoprophylaxis.
In "Passage to
Real Immunity," we
took a closer look at
parents and doctors
using homeoprophylaxis
and also spoke
with Dr. Isaac Golden, the
world's leading researcher
for homeoprophylaxis.
Homeoprophylaxis
is also called HP.
It's been around for 200 years.
Is about 90% effective
across the board.
And most importantly,
it removes the fear
that's the biggest impediment
to our real immunity.
>> We can't face these
problems in fear,
because that's
going to weaken us.
We have to face them in courage.
And we can't do
what's been done.
We've got to do it differently.
So nice fast track
to enlightenment
is be the very thing you
want your children to be,
because you can't say
to your child stop
being such an
emotional basket case,
because they're witnessing you.
They're paying attention
to who you're being.
And our mirror neurons,
modeling neurons,
that emulate behaviors
I think are always
active in most human beings.
And I think that's
what kind of creates
this mass consciousness, maybe
even mass limitation or mass
unconsciousness, in the way that
we believe we're so limited.
And our research shows that
10 minutes of gratitude a day,
three times a day for three days
strengthens the immune system
by 50%.
That we begin to produce
a chemical called
IGA, immunoglobulin
A, your body's
primary defense against
bacteria and viruses.
It's the body's
natural flu shot.
In fact, it's better
than any flu shot.
>> Throughout "The Real
Immunity" series, Quest,
Passage, and now Choosing,
I've tried to communicate
the importance of letting go of
fear, trusting your intuition,
and making the most
conscious choices possible.
My own cancer diagnosis threw an
enormous challenge in my path,
calling me to follow
my own advice.
I've struggled with balancing
intuition with surrender,
just as Dr. Joe describes.
I've come to understand
that real immunity is
a dynamic process, one that
calls us to be our best.
No one can give you immunity.
You already possess it.
No one can tell you what's
best for your health
or your children's.
Only you know that.
Most importantly,
life has intelligence.
And we all have access
to that intelligence.
We all have access to the
amazing power of real immunity.
All of our questions may
not always be answered.
I'm learning that maybe it's
a matter of living gracefully
with some of the questions.
>> Well, first of all, never
be afraid of connecting
to the heart, because the
heart is going to bring you
to connect to your soul.
And once you
connect to the soul,
it connects to the source.
And that's where immunity
comes from feeling protected.
We are all protected.
There is God.
And there is no way to feel
that you can't protect yourself
from.
Once you are in your light,
you connect to the source,
and you shouldn't be
afraid of anything.
[MUSIC PLAYING]